# JGAU

Deep Learning based Joint Geometry and Attribute Up-sampling for Large-Scale Colored Point Clouds

Yun Zhang, Feifan Chen, Na Li, Zhiwei Guo, Xu Wang, Fen Miao, Sam Kwong

## Abstract
Colored point cloud comprising geometry and attribute components is one of the mainstream representations enabling realistic and immersive 3D applications. To generate large-scale and denser colored point clouds, we propose a deep learning-based Joint Geometry and Attribute Up-sampling (JGAU) method, which learns to model both geometry and attribute patterns and leverages the spatial attribute correlation. Firstly, we establish and release a large-scale dataset for colored point cloud up-sampling, named SYSU-PCUD, which has 121 large-scale colored point clouds with diverse geometry and attribute complexities in six categories and four sampling rates. Secondly, to improve the quality of up-sampled point clouds, we propose a deep learning-based JGAU framework to up-sample the geometry and attribute jointly. It consists of a geometry upsampling network and an attribute up-sampling network, where the latter leverages the up-sampled auxiliary geometry to model neighborhood correlations of the attributes. Thirdly, we propose two coarse attribute up-sampling methods, Geometric Distance Weighted Attribute Interpolation (GDWAI) and Deep Learningbased Attribute Interpolation (DLAI), to generate coarsely upsampled attributes for each point. Then, we propose an attribute enhancement module to refine the up-sampled attributes and generate high quality point clouds by further exploiting intrinsic attribute and geometry patterns. Extensive experiments show that Peak Signal-to-Noise Ratio (PSNR) achieved by the proposed JGAU are 33.90 dB, 32.10 dB, 31.10 dB, and 30.39 dB when upsampling rates are 4×, 8×, 12×, and 16×, respectively. Compared to the state-of-the-art schemes, the JGAU achieves an average of 2.32 dB, 2.47 dB, 2.28 dB and 2.11 dB PSNR gains at four upsampling rates, respectively, which are significant.
